# Importing and exporting files
[Back to table of contents](00_tableOfContents.md)

By now you should have launched Hydrus. If you're like most new users you probably already have a fair bit of images or other media files that you're looking at getting organised. If not then head over to [downloading files](03_downloading.md).

## Importing files
Navigate to `file -> import files` in the toolbar or drag and drop a folder or file(s) into Hydrus. This will open the `import files` window. Here you can add files or folders, or delete files from the import queue. Let Hydrus parse what it will update and then look over the options. By default the option to delete original files after succesful import (if it's ignored for any reason or already present in Hydrus for example) is not checked, activate on your own risk. In `file import options` you can find some settings for minimum and maximum file size, resolution, and whether to import previously deleted files or not.

From here there's two options, `import now` which will just import as is, and `add tags before import >>` which lets you set up some rules to add tags to files on import.  
Examples are keeping filename as a tag, add folders as tag (useful if you have some sort of folder based organisation scheme), or load tags from an accompanying .txt file generated by some other program.

Once you're done click apply (or `import now`) and Hydrus will start processing the files. Exact duplicates are not imported so if you had dupes spread out you will end up with only one file in the end. If files *look* similar but Hydrus imports both then that's a job for the [dupe filter](06_duplicates.md) as there is some difference even if you can't tell it by eye. A common one is compression giving files with different file sizes, but otherwise looking identical or files with extra meta data baked into them.

## Exporting files
If you want to share your files then export is the way to go. Basic way is to mark the files in Hydrus, dragging from there and dropping the files where you want them.

You can also copy the files by right-clicking and going down `share -> copy -> files` and then pasting the files where you want them.

You can also export files with tags, either in filename or as a side-car .txt file by right-clicking and going down `share -> export -> files`. Have a look at the settings and then press `export`.

## Automation
Under `file -> import and export folders` you'll find options for setting up automated import and export folders that can run on a schedule. Both have a fair deal of options and rules you can set so look them over carefully.

[Back to table of contents](00_tableOfContents.md)  
[Onwards to downloading files](03_downloading.md)